THIS IS THE FIRST TIME THAT
A MOTHER HEARS HER BABY.
SOON SHE'LL HEAR THE
BABY A LOT AS HE DEMANDS
TO BE FED, BUT THESE EARLY
SOUNDS ARE A LONG WAY
FROM THE CONVERSATIONS
SHE WILL HAVE WITH HIM
WHEN HE GETS TO SCHOOL AGE
AND WANTS A NEW FOOTBALL.
IN OTHER WORDS, HE'S GOING
TO DEVELOP LANGUAGE.
THIS VIDEO WILL SHOW
YOU HOW THIS HAPPENS.
THE FIRST STAGE IN THE
DEVELOPMENT OF LANGUAGE
IS KNOWN AS THE PRE-VERBAL
STAGE WHICH INVOLVES
THE PRODUCTION OF
A RANGE OF NOISES.
NONE OF WHICH ARE
RECOGNIZABLE AS WORDS,
BUT STILL MANAGE
TO COMMUNICATE
THE BABY'S NEEDS.
THIS SAD SOUND IS
THAT OF A HUNGRY BABY.
HE'S LEARNING THAT
MAKING A NOISE
BRINGS LOVE, COMFORT,
AND SOMETHING TO EAT.
IN PSYCHOLOGICAL TERMS,
THE CONSEQUENCES OF YELLING
ARE REWARDED AS THE BABY
LEARNS THAT MAKING SOUNDS
PRODUCES AN EFFECT ON
THE WORLD AROUND HIM,
AND HE BEGINS
TO COMMUNICATE.
DOES THAT FEEL
BETTER NOW?
BUT OF COURSE, EVEN
FROM THE BEGINNING,
COMMUNICATION IS A TWO-WAY
PROCESS AND BABIES ARE
LISTENING TO THEIR
MOTHER'S VOICES.
RESEARCH SUGGESTS THAT
BABIES MAY LEARN
TO RECOGNIZE THEIR
PARENTS' VOICES
FROM WITHIN THE
WOMB BEFORE BIRTH.
CERTAINLY BABIES ARE
READY TO RESPOND TO THEIR
MOTHER'S VOICE AND THE
SOUND OF THEIR OWN NAME
FROM AN EARLY AGE.
BABIES INCREASINGLY
PAY ATTENTION TO LOUD
OR INTERESTING SOUNDS
IN THEIR ENVIRONMENT.
ALMOST FROM BIRTH BABIES
ARE READY TO INTERACT
WITH ANOTHER
HUMAN BEING.
PSYCHOLOGISTS HAVE DESCRIBED
THE ROUTINES OF TURN-TAKING
IN CONVERSATIONS
BETWEEN MOTHER AND BABY.
THIS IS
CALLED A "DANCE"
BECAUSE OF ALL
THE STEPS INVOLVED.
COHN  and  TRONICK
FOUND THAT OFTEN
THE BABY
GIVES THE LEAD.
NOTICE HERE HOW
CALLUM, AGE 13 WEEKS,
AND HIS MOTHER SEEM
TO TAKE TURNS TO TALK
AS IN ADULT CONVERSATION,
AND THAT CALLUM
SEEMS TO HAVE AS MUCH TO
CONTRIBUTE AS HIS MOTHER.
(BABY GURGLING)
I LOVE YOUR STORIES.
CAN YOU TELL ME
SOME MORE STORIES?
(BABY GURGLING)
IT HAS BEEN FOUND BY
HOSTELTLER THAT MOTHERS
CAN TELL WHAT THEIR
BABIES MEAN; FOR EXAMPLE,
WHETHER THEY'RE AFRAID,
HUNGRY, BORED, OR IN PAIN.
DO PARENTS UNDERSTAND
WHAT THEIR BABIES MEAN
BY THE SOUNDS
THEY MAKE?
WE WENT OUT ONTO THE
STREETS TO FIND OUT.
...DIFFERENT
TYPES OF CRYING;
HE KIND OF WAILS IF HE
WANTS SOMETHING TO EAT.
OTHERWISE HE
JUST MOANS,
BUT HE DOESN'T MAKE A LOT
OF NOISE AT THE MOMENT.
JUST CRYING WHEN HE
WANTS SOMETHING TO EAT
AND THAT'S ABOUT
IT AT THE MOMENT.
BUT HE'S ONLY
A WEEK OLD.
WITHIN A FEW HOURS YOU
CAN TELL THE DIFFERENCE,
YOU'LL BE ABLE TO TELL
YOUR BABY'S CRY FROM ANY
OTHER BABY WITHIN A FEW
HOURS OF IT BEING BORN.
DIFFERENT CRIES - HE HAS
ANGRY CRIES, FRUSTRATED
CRIES, HUNGRY CRIES,
I-WANT-ATTENTION CRIES.
YOU CAN TELL
BY THE PITCH.
SHE'S GOT LIKE
A HYENA LAUGH
- NOT LAUGH, A HYENA CRY -
WHENEVER SHE'S HUNGRY,
SO WE ALWAYS KNOW
WHEN SHE'S HUNGRY.
AND WHEN SHE'S TIRED
IT'S JUST MORE OF A...
MOAN.
...A MOAN, ISN'T
IT REALLY?
OOH, DIFFICULT.
I JUST TRY THINGS,
LIKE, YOU KNOW,
IF I THINK SHE'S HUNGRY
I TRY TO FEED HER.
BUT IT'S JUST A GUESS,
JUST GUESS WORK.
SHE SORT OF SCREAMS
IF SHE'S HUNGRY.
IF SHE'S HUNGRY SHE JUST
SORT OF WHIMPS, OOH, OOH.
I THINK A MOTHER
JUST KNOWS.
I MEAN, YOU CAN TELL.
I MEAN, IF HE'S JUST
WHINGING, YOU KNOW,
MAYBE HE JUST WANTS A CUDDLE
OR IF HE'S REALLY CRYING
WITH TEARS, YOU KNOW, HE'S
EITHER TEETHING OR HUNGRY.
OR A NAPPY.
OR A NAPPY, YEAH.
YEAH, BUT WHAT IF YOU
FED THEM AND CHANGED
THEIR NAPPY AND THEY'RE
STILL SCREAMING?
WE HAVEN'T
A CLUE THEN.
GET THE OLD
TEETHING GEL OUT.
HE'S GOT WHAT I CALL AN
"ALARM" CRY WHERE HE'S
UH, UH, UH, WHICH MEANS
HE'S JUST TIRED BASICALLY
AND YOU'VE JUST GOT TO
LIE HIM DOWN AND JUST
LEAVE HIM AND QUIETEN
HIM DOWN SOMEWHERE.
AND IF HE WANTS
SOMETHING BADLY
THEN HIS ARMS START
GOING LIKE THIS.
SO THAT'S WHEN YOU KNOW
IF HE WANTS SOMETHING,
IF HE'S SEEN
SOMETHING LIKE A MUG
OR SOMETHING BRIGHTLY
COLORED THAT HE WANTS.
THEN THAT'S
WHAT IT IS.
NOW SEE IF YOU CAN
TELL WHAT'S HAPPENING
TO THESE FOUR BABIES
BY THE SOUNDS THEY MAKE.
(BABY LAUGHING)
(BABY STARTING TO CRY)
(BABY PUFFING)
(BABY CRYING)
BETHAN WAS ENJOYING
BEING CHASED.
IT WASN'T EASY TO GUESS WHAT
BEN WAS COMPLAINING ABOUT.
OH, DEAR. IT'S THOSE
TEETH, ISN'T IT?
IS THAT WHAT YOU'RE SAYING
IS THAT YOUR TEETH HURT?
YES.
BRANDON WAS STRUGGLING
TO MOVE AROUND.
AMBER WAS VERY
TIRED AND OBJECTING
TO HAVING HER
NAPPY CHANGED.
GRADUALLY BABIES COME TO
EXPRESS THEIR EMOTIONS
MORE CLEARLY.
INSTEAD OF BEING ASLEEP,
PEACEFULLY AWAKE,
OR AGITATED, THEY SHOW
INCREASINGLY RECOGNIZABLE
EMOTIONS DURING
THE FIRST YEAR.
HERE ARE SOME RECOGNIZABLE
STEPS IN THE DEVELOPMENT
OF DIFFERENT EMOTIONAL
STATES IN BABIES.
YOU CAN FIND A COPY OF THIS
TABLE IN THE USER'S GUIDE.
FROM BIRTH BABIES SHOW
GENERAL DISTRESS -
CRYING WITH THEIR
EYES TIGHTLY SHUT.
FOR EXAMPLE, WHEN
THEY'RE IN PAIN.
AT TWO MONTHS
THEY SHOW ENJOYMENT
WITH A SMILING MOUTH
AND WIDENING EYES,
PERHAPS WHEN SEEING
THEIR MOTHER.
BY THREE MONTHS THEY
SHOW A SENSE OF FUN,
AS SHOWN BY LAUGHING
PERHAPS WHEN TICKLED.
ANGER IS SEEN AT AROUND
THREE TO FOUR MONTHS.
THE BABY CRIES WITH
OPEN EYES WHEN ANNOYED;
FOR EXAMPLE, IF HE
CAN'T REACH A TOY.
BY SIX MONTHS BABIES CAN
BE SEEN TO ENJOY A JOKE;
PERHAPS BY SHOWING
AMUSEMENT WHEN A PARENT
DOES SOMETHING UNUSUAL.
THEY ALSO SHOW
WARINESS AT SIX MONTHS.
THE BABY QUIETENS, STARES,
FROWNS, AND MAY TURN AWAY;
FOR EXAMPLE, IF A
STRANGER APPROACHES.
AT AROUND NINE MONTHS
EXPRESSIONS OF
FEAR ARE SEEN.
THE BABY STARES,
FROWNS, PULLS HIS MOUTH
STRAIGHT BACK, AND
FREEZES WHEN CONFRONTED,
FOR EXAMPLE, WITH
HEIGHTS OR A BIG DROP.
AS WITH ADULTS, SOME
COMMUNICATION INVOLVES
NON-VERBAL MEANS
AS WELL AS SPOKEN.
LET'S TAKE SMILING
AND LAUGHING
AS SIGNS OF PLEASURE.
BEFORE EIGHT WEEKS, BABIES
SMILE AT ALL HUMAN FACES.
BUT THEN THEY SEEM TO
LEARN WHAT THEIR FAMILY
LOOK LIKE AND WILL OVER THE
NEXT FEW MONTHS TEND TO
SMILE MOST READILY AT
PEOPLE THEY KNOW AND LIKE.
IN FACT, AS ATTACHMENT
DEVELOPS THEY OFTEN LOOK
UNHAPPY AT THE SIGHT OF
A STRANGER'S FACE AND
PROTEST AT SEPARATION
FROM THE PARENT.
LAUGHTER DEVELOPS
AT ABOUT 14 WEEKS,
AND THERE MAY BE HINTS
OF INCIPIENT LAUGHTER
IN THE PRECEDING WEEKS.
LET'S ASK SOME PARENTS
WHAT BABIES FIND FUNNY.
STUPID THINGS. YEAH, YOU
JUST PULL FACES AT HIM
AND HE GIGGLES
LIKE ANYTHING.
THIS BABY LOVES TO
EAT ALL THE TIME.
IF I SAY "WOOF,
WOOF, WOOF".
IF I TICKLE HIM UNDER THE
ARMPITS OR BITE HIS FEET.
WHAT MAKES YOU LAUGH?
BEING TICKLED MAINLY.
UM, HE'S QUITE
GIGGLY AND LAUGHS AT
A LOT OF THINGS LATELY;
JUST SILLY THINGS.
HOW DO YOU MAKE
JACOB LAUGH?
IF I THROW SOMETHING OR IF
I WHISTLE HE MIGHT LAUGH.
WHEN YOU WHISTLE,
SOMETIMES HE DOES LAUGH
WHEN YOU BLOW
THE WHISTLE.
OR SOMETIMES IF YOU
JUMP UP AND DOWN
HE LAUGHS, DOESN'T HE?
ESPECIALLY IF
IT'S ON YOUR BED.
BABBLING EMERGES DURING
THE PRE-VERBAL STAGE.
FROM ABOUT THREE MONTHS TO
12-MONTHS-OLD, BABIES BEGIN
TO EXPERIMENT WITH ALL
THE SOUNDS THEY CAN MAKE.
THE CHARACTERISTICS OF
BABBLING ARE SINGLE VOWEL
AND CONSONANT SOUNDS
REPEATED OVER AND OVER,
WITH VARYING INTONATION.
BAH-BAH-BAH.
BABIES WHO WILL
EVENTUALLY SPEAK
ENGLISH, FRENCH,
OR CHINESE
ALL SOUND THE SAME AT
THE START OF THIS STAGE.
IT'S NOT A REFLECTION
OF THE SOUNDS THEY HEAR
AROUND THEM, BUT
MORE A PRACTICING
OF WHAT'S POSSIBLE.
(BABBLING)
THE BABBLING OF THIS
EIGHT-MONTH OLD
SOUNDS VERY SIMILAR
TO OTHER BABIES.
ONE WOULDN'T KNOW
FROM HIS BABBLING
THAT HIS MOTHER
SPEAKS CHINESE TO HIM.
BUT IN A FEW MONTHS TIME
HIS BABBLING WILL REFLECT
THE SOUNDS OF HIS
NATIVE LANGUAGE.
DEAF CHILDREN ALSO
BABBLE, BUT IT'S DELAYED.
THE ABILITY TO HEAR
THEMSELVES MAKE SOUNDS
SEEMS TO
CONTRIBUTE TO
BABIES' LANGUAGE
DEVELOPMENT.
SINCE ALL OF THESE THINGS
TEND TO HAPPEN TO
ALL BABIES IN THE SAME
SEQUENCE, IT APPEARS THAT
EARLY LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT
IS A MATURATION PROCESS.
BABIES CAN NOW USE SOUNDS
AS WELL AS ACTIONS
TO PRODUCE THE DESIRED
EFFECT IN THE ENVIRONMENT.
MOVING OUT OF THE
PRE-VERBAL STAGE,
MANY BABIES PRODUCE
A FAIRLY RECOGNIZABLE
FIRST WORD BY ABOUT
TEN MONTHS OF AGE.
THERE'S QUITE A WIDE AGE
RANGE FOR THIS AND THE
AVERAGE AGE FOR FIRST
WORDS IS 13.6 MONTHS.
"LOOK AND LISTEN",
OH, THIS IS OUR
FAVORITE BOOK, ISN'T IT?
WHAT ARE BABY'S
FIRST WORDS?
IT'S INTERESTING TO MAKE
A COLLECTION OF THEM.
YOU'LL FIND THAT THEY'RE
USUALLY THE NAMES
FOR FAMILIAR
OBJECTS OR PEOPLE.
DE VILLIERS GAVE TWO
CRITERIA FOR FIRST WORDS.
FIRSTLY THEY MUST
APPROXIMATE TO THE
ADULT WORD, AND SECONDLY
THEY MUST BE USED
CONSISTENTLY IN
SIMILAR SITUATIONS.
THERE IS A PERIOD NOW
TO AROUND A YEAR OLD
WHEN BABIES TEND TO LEAVE
LANGUAGE FOR A WHILE
TO CONCENTRATE ON OTHER
ASPECTS OF DEVELOPMENT.
PAUSE THE VIDEO AND
CONSIDER WHAT OTHER
ASPECTS OF DEVELOPMENT
ONE-YEAR-OLD MICHAEL
WILL BE
CONCENTRATING ON.
SOON AFTERWARDS, THE
SINGLE WORD SENTENCE
STAGE ARRIVES
WHERE CHILDREN
PUT ALL THE MEANING
THEY NEED INTO ONE WORD.
ONE WORD MAY
MEAN MANY THINGS.
FOR EXAMPLE, "DADDY" CAN
MEAN "THERE IS DADDY"
OR "I WANT TO
GO TO DADDY".
ACCORDING TO WHICH
WORDS WERE USED FIRST,
NELSON DESCRIBED CHILDREN
AS "EXPRESSIVE"
OR "REFERENTIAL".
EXPRESSIVE CHILDREN USED
MOSTLY WORDS WHICH REFERRED
TO SOCIAL SITUATIONS SUCH
AS "BYE BYE" OR "STOP IT",
WHEREAS REFERENTIAL
CHILDREN USED THE NAMES
OF OBJECTS, FOR
EXAMPLE "CAT", "BOOK".
THIS APPEARED TO DEPEND
ON WHETHER THE PARENTS
PRIMARILY USED LANGUAGE
IN A SOCIAL CONTEXT
OR IN A COGNITIVE
CONTEXT.
CHILDREN ALSO OVER
GENERALIZE AND MAY,
FOR INSTANCE, CALL ALL
FOUR-LEGGED ANIMALS DOGS,
OR CAUSE
EMBARRASSMENT BY
CALLING EVERY MAN
THEY MEET DADDY.
DADDY.
I'M NOT DADDY, I'M
THE CAMERA MAN.
THE SIMPLE COMMUNICATION
OF BODILY STATES
IS LIKE THAT OF
ANY OTHER ANIMALS.
BUT WITH THE ACHIEVEMENT
OF WORDS, BABIES LEAVE
THIS STAGE AND MOVE INTO
THE REALMS OF SYMBOLISM.
A WORD CAN BE USED TO
STAND FOR AN OBJECT,
AND REFER TO IT
IN ITS ABSENCE.
WORDS CAN BE USED TO TALK
ABOUT YESTERDAY, TOMORROW,
AND WHAT MAY HAPPEN, AND NOT
JUST IN THE HERE AND NOW.
WITH THIS SYMBOLIC
FUNCTION ESTABLISHED
CHILDREN NOW GO ON TO FULL
LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT.
IT'S THE SYMBOLIC
NATURE OF LANGUAGE
THAT IS ONE OF THE
UNIQUE FEATURES
THAT SETS US APART
FROM OTHER ANIMALS.
SOME ANIMALS CAN
UNDERSTAND A FEW WORDS,
BUT THEY CAN'T DISCUSS
ABSTRACT IDEAS WITH US.
THERE ARE MANY
EXAMPLES OF COMPLEX
PATTERNS OF COMMUNICATION
IN OTHER SPECIES.
FOR EXAMPLE, VON FRISCH
IN 1955 THOUGHT THAT
WHEN WORKER BEES HAVE FOUND
A GOOD SOURCE OF FOOD
THEY RETURNED TO THE HIVE
AND EXPLAINED THE LOCATION
AND DISTANCE AWAY
TO THE OTHER BEES
THROUGH AN
ELABORATE VARIATION
OF BODY POSITIONS
AND FLYING MOVEMENTS.
THIS IS NOT NOW THOUGHT
TO BE THE WHOLE STORY,
BUT NEVERTHELESS SUGGESTS
THAT EVEN THE MOST
PRIMITIVE CREATURES HAVE
A LANGUAGE OF SOME KIND.
MANY OTHER SPECIES
HAVE BEEN STUDIED
BUT NONE APPEAR TO HAVE
THE SOPHISTICATION
OF HUMAN LANGUAGE.
MOST STUDIES HAVE
CONCENTRATED ON OUR
NEAREST RELATIVES, THE
APES, WHO COMMUNICATE
IN THE WILD THROUGH
SOUNDS AND VISUAL SIGNALS.
IT'S OBVIOUS, EVEN IF YOU
ARE A JUNGLE BOOK FAN,
THAT OTHER ANIMALS HAVE
NOT GOT THE VOCAL CHORDS
REQUIRED FOR HUMAN SPEECH,
AND FOR THIS REASON EARLY
ATTEMPTS TO TEACH PRIMATES
TO SPEAK WERE A FAILURE.
HOWEVER, MORE RECENT
RESEARCH HAS LOOKED AT THE
QUESTION OF WHETHER THEY
COULD UNDERSTAND AND USE
HUMAN LANGUAGE IF THEY WERE
TAUGHT BY OTHER MEANS.
MANY ATTEMPTS HAVE
BEEN MADE USING
SUCH METHODS AS TEACHING
AMERICAN SIGN LANGUAGE,
USING HAND SIGNALS,
USING PLASTIC SYMBOLS
TO REPRESENT WORDS
AND CONCEPTS,
AND USING COMPUTER
KEYBOARDS.
ALL HAVE HAD LIMITED
SUCCESS IN TEACHING
PRIMATES TO USE
WORDS AND EVEN UP TO
THREE-WORD SENTENCES
ABOUT SIMPLE THINGS.
THERE'S BEEN MUCH
CRITICISM OF THE
METHODS USED AND
THE INTERPRETATION
PUT ON THE
APES' RESPONSES.
THERE ARE MANY BIASES
THAT CAN CONFOUND RESULTS
WHEN TRYING TO OBSERVE AND
RECORD ANIMAL BEHAVIOR.
WE'LL TALK ABOUT
THE PROBLEMS
OF OBSERVATIONAL
STUDIES LATER.
AS YET, NO PRIMATE HAS
ACQUIRED LANGUAGE
TO THE HIGH LEVEL OF
COMPREHENSION OF HUMAN
CHILDREN IN SPITE OF
INTENSE TRAINING PROGRAMS.
THE QUESTION CONTINUES
TO INVITE INTEREST
AS IT'S CENTRAL TO THE
NATURE/NURTURE DEBATE
AND THE ARGUMENT THAT THERE
IS A QUALITATIVE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN HUMANS
AND OTHER ANIMALS.
NOW LET'S CONTINUE
LOOKING AT
THE DEVELOPMENT
OF HUMAN LANGUAGE.
THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF
RESEARCH INTO THE QUESTION
OF HOW BABIES ACTUALLY
MAKE THE LEAP BETWEEN
OBJECTS, ACTIONS,
AND WORDS.
JEROME BRUNER STATED THAT
BABIES LEARN THE PATTERN
OF FAMILIAR ROUTINES.
FOR EXAMPLE,
MEAL TIMES,
AND CAN REMEMBER
THEM IN SOME WAY.
THIS MAY BE WHY THEY'RE
UPSET BY STRANGERS
WHO DO THINGS IN AN
UNPREDICTABLE MANNER.
THE BABY'S KNOWLEDGE OF
THESE SOCIAL ROUTINES
IS WHAT ENABLES IT TO
"CRACK THE CODE" OF THE
LANGUAGE WHICH ACCOMPANIES
SOCIAL INTERACTION.
JEROME BRUNER ALSO SAW
LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT
IN TERMS OF A WAY FOR
CHILDREN TO SOLVE PROBLEMS,
SUCH AS "HOW CAN I GET
MOM TO GIVE ME A DRINK?
HALLIDAY SUGGESTED THAT
LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT WAS
ALL PART OF CHILDRENS'
ATTEMPTS TO MASTER AND
INFLUENCE THEIR WORLD; FOR
EXAMPLE, TO GET PEOPLE
TO DO THINGS AND
BRING THINGS TO THEM.
MARGARET HARRIS SPENT
MANY HOURS WATCHING
MOTHERS AND
BABIES TOGETHER.
SHE FOUND THAT
MOTHERS PREDICTED
WHAT THE CHILDREN
WERE ABOUT TO DO
AND THEY WOULD PUT
THIS INTO WORDS.
SO JUST AS THE CHILD
THOUGHT OF KNOCKING
OVER THE BRICKS,
MOTHER WOULD SAY,
"ARE YOU GOING TO
KNOCK THEM ALL DOWN?"
HARRIS SHOWED THAT 80%
OF MOTHER'S UTTERANCES
AT THE AGE OF 16 MONTHS
REFERRED TO THE OBJECT
ON WHICH THE CHILD WAS
FOCUSING AS SHE SPOKE.
INTERESTINGLY, SHE
ALSO NOTED THAT MOTHERS
OF SLOW
LANGUAGE DEVELOPERS
DIDN'T GET THIS
TIMING EXACTLY RIGHT.
SHE ALSO SUGGESTED
THAT THE REASON WHY
BLIND CHILDRENS' LANGUAGE
IS DELAYED IS THAT
THEY LACK THIS VISUAL
CONTEXT FOR WORD LEARNING.
ONCE THE CHILD HAS GRASPED
THE IDEA OF USING WORDS,
THERE IS THEN A STAGE
OF VOCABULARY LEARNING
WHERE PARENTS ACTIVELY
TEACH THE NAMES OF THINGS.
IT'S A MAN... A MAN.
THERE IS THEN A VERY RAPID
STAGE OF WORD ACQUISITION.
WE'LL MOVE ON
TO THIS STAGE
AFTER WE'VE LOOKED
AT THE THEORIES.
BEHAVIORAL PSYCHOLOGISTS
SUCH AS B.F. SKINNER
BELIEVED THAT CHILDREN
LEARN LANGUAGE
BY THE PROCESS
OF IMITATION,
AND THAT THIS IS SHAPED
BY OPERANT CONDITIONING.
THAT IS, PARENTS ARE
CONSTANTLY REWARDING
OR REINFORCING THE
CHILD'S ATTEMPTS
TO IMITATE SPEECH.
HELLO DUCK.
ALTHOUGH IMITATION DOES
PLAY SOME PART IN LANGUAGE
- ESPECIALLY IN
ACQUIRING VOCABULARY -
IT'S OBVIOUSLY NOT
THE WHOLE STORY.
FOR EXAMPLE, CHILDREN
CREATE ORIGINAL SENTENCES
AND SAY THINGS WHICH THEY'VE
NEVER HEARD ADULTS SAY.
SOME OF THE RULES OF
GRAMMAR THAT CHILDREN
HAVE TO ACQUIRE ARE
ACTUALLY VERY COMPLICATED,
AND THEY'RE EASIER
TO USE THAN EXPLAIN.
YOU CAN SEE NOW WHY
ADULTS WOULD FIND IT
VERY DIFFICULT
TO EXPLAIN
THE RULES OF LANGUAGE
TO CHILDREN.
IN ANY CASE, ADULT
SPEECH HAS MANY
GRAMMATICAL ERRORS
IN IT, SO CHILDREN
DON'T NECESSARILY
HEAR GOOD LANGUAGE.
IT SEEMS THEN THAT
IMITATION CAN'T BE
THE ONLY WAY THAT
CHILDREN ACQUIRE LANGUAGE.
THE OTHER POSSIBILITY IS
THAT LANGUAGE IS INNATE.
NOAM CHOMSKY PROPOSED THAT
CHILDREN ARE BIOLOGICALLY
PRE-PROGRAMMED TO
ACQUIRE LANGUAGE.
HE SUGGESTED THAT CHILDREN
HAVE WHAT HE CALLED
A "LANGUAGE
ACQUISITION DEVICE"
WHICH HELPS THEM TO ACQUIRE
THE RULES OF GRAMMAR.
HE CLAIMED THAT THE DEEP
STRUCTURE OF ALL LANGUAGES
ARE THE SAME, AND
THEREFORE AN INHERITED
LANGUAGE ACQUISITION
DEVICE IS UNIVERSAL.
THIS COULD EXPLAIN THE
FACT THAT ALL CHILDREN
GO THROUGH THE SAME
LANGUAGE STAGES
AND TEND TO MAKE THE
SAME LANGUAGE MISTAKES
INSTEAD OF SIMPLY
MIMICKING ADULTS.
♪ A NEIGH, NEIGH HERE AND
A NEIGH, NEIGH THERE ♪
♪ HERE A NEIGH,
THERE A NEIGH, ♪
♪ EVERYWHERE A
NEIGH, NEIGH ♪
♪ OLD MACDONALD HAD A
FARM, EE-EYE-EE-EYE-OH. ♪
WE ALSO KNOW FROM
BRAIN STUDIES THAT
THERE ARE SPECIALIZED
AREAS OF THE BRAIN
RESPONSIBLE FOR
LANGUAGE PROCESSING.
THE PRIMARY AUDITORY
AREA RECEIVES A SIGNAL
FROM THE EAR AND TRANSMITS
IT VIA NERVE FIBERS
TO WERNICKE'S AREA IN
THE LEFT TEMPORAL LOBE,
WHICH IS RELATED TO
UNDERSTANDING OF LANGUAGE.
THIS IS THEN TRANSMITTED
TO BROCA'S AREA
ON THE LEFT
FRONTAL LOBE
WHICH IS RELATED TO THE
PRODUCTION OF SPEECH.
AND THE MOTOR AREA
DRIVES OUR MUSCLES
TO PRODUCE SPEECH.
FURTHER SUPPORT FOR
BIOLOGICAL PRE-PROGRAMMING
COMES FROM LENNEBERG,
AMONG OTHERS,
WHO SUGGESTED
THAT THERE MAY BE
CRITICAL PERIODS FOR
LANGUAGE LEARNING.
EVIDENCE HAS COME FROM
STUDIES OF SEVERELY
EMOTIONALLY AND PHYSICALLY
NEGLECTED CHILDREN
WHO HAVE BEEN REARED IN
SOME KIND OF ISOLATION.
WHEN THEY'RE DISCOVERED,
THESE CHILDREN
CANNOT SPEAK AND THEY
DO SEEM TO HAVE PROBLEMS
IN LEARNING TO
SPEAK LATER.
A RECENT CASE IN GREAT
BRITAIN DESCRIBED A
FIVE-YEAR-OLD GIRL
WHO'D BEEN LEFT ALONE
IN A DARK BEDROOM FOR
UP TO 22 HOURS A DAY.
SHE COULD ONLY COMMUNICATE
BY GRUNTS AND SQUEALS
WHEN SHE CAME TO SCHOOL.
HOWEVER, IN MANY OF
THE REPORTED CASES
THE CHILDREN HAVE ACQUIRED
SOME LANGUAGE WHEN
SUBSEQUENTLY BROUGHT UP
IN A NORMAL ENVIRONMENT.
TO SUMMARIZE THE DEBATE
ON LANGUAGE ACQUISITION:
CHOMSKY TAKES THE
POSITION THAT WE'RE BORN
WITH A PREDISPOSITION
TO LEARN LANGUAGE.
SUPPORT COMES FROM THE
FACT THAT CHILDREN ALL
OVER THE WORLD LEARN IN
THE SAME WAY; THAT WE HAVE
SPECIALIZED NERVE CELLS
FOR LANGUAGE PROCESSING;
THAT DEAF BABIES BABBLE;
THAT BABIES WHO HAVE BEEN
ISOLATED DURING CERTAIN
CRITICAL PERIODS
DO NOT ACQUIRE
NORMAL LANGUAGE;
AND THAT LANGUAGE IS
ESSENTIAL FOR SURVIVAL.
SKINNER TAKES THE
OPPOSING VIEW THAT
BABIES LEARN FROM
THE ENVIRONMENT,
FROM HEARING
LANGUAGE AROUND THEM,
BEING ENCOURAGED
BY PARENTS,
AND BY IMITATING AND
OBSERVING OTHERS.
THE MAJOR PROBLEM
WITH THIS VIEW
IS THAT CHILDREN PRODUCE
UNIQUE LANGUAGE
THAT THEY COULD NOT
HAVE HEARD BEFORE.
THE INTERACTIONIST VIEW
SUGGESTS THAT ALL THESE
FACTORS COMBINED WITH
GOOD HEALTH AND NUTRITION
ASSIST THE DEVELOPMENT
OF LANGUAGE.
NOW TO RETURN TO THE
DEVELOPMENTAL STAGES.
HAVING PASSED THROUGH THE
PRE-VERBAL AND SINGLE-WORD
SENTENCE STAGES, CHILDREN
NOW MOVE TO USING SHORT
SENTENCES FROM ABOUT 18
MONTHS TO TWO YEARS OLD.
THEY SPEAK IN A KIND OF
TELEGRAMMATIC FASHION,
OMITTING THE LESS
IMPORTANT WORDS.
IS IT YOURS?
ARE YOU GOING
TO DRIVE IT?
(UNINTELLIGIBLE)
DID YOU? WHAT COLOR?
YELLOW, BLUE, PURPLE.
IS THAT WHAT
COLOR MY CAR IS?
IT BLACK.
ALTHOUGH THEIR
SENTENCES ARE SHORT,
THEIR ABILITY TO REMEMBER
THE WORDS OF RHYMES AND SONGS
SUGGESTS THAT THIS IS NOT
DUE TO POOR MEMORY SPAN.
(SINGING)
IT HAS BEEN REPORTED BY
WAGNER THAT YOUNG CHILDREN
MAY SPEAK 20,000 TO
30,000 WORDS A DAY.
BY TWO AND A HALF,
CHILDREN HAVE A VOCABULARY
OF OVER 400 WORDS.
HOW DO YOU THINK THIS
COULD BE CALCULATED?
THIS COULD MAKE AN
INTERESTING PRACTICAL
STUDY WITH A CHILD
THAT YOU KNOW.
THERE'S MORE
INFORMATION ABOUT THIS
IN THE USER'S GUIDE.
(SINGING)
LANGUAGE NOW BECOMES
SOMETHING TO PLAY WITH
AND A WAY OF SHARING
AND ENJOYING THINGS.
EARLY RHYMES AND STORIES
START TO BRING THE HISTORY
AND CULTURE OF THE
WORLD OUTSIDE THE
CHILD'S IMMEDIATE FAMILY
INTO HIS OR HER LIFE.
IN THE SPEECH ERRORS
THAT CHILDREN MAKE
WE CAN SEE HOW THEY'RE
GRADUALLY WORKING OUT
THE RULES OF GRAMMAR
FOR THEMSELVES.
PARENTS DO GRADUALLY
INCREASE DEMANDS FOR
ACCEPTABLE LANGUAGE AND
OFTEN INSIST ON THE CHILD
USING SPECIFIC AND
EXTENDED PHRASES.
FOR EXAMPLE,
"SAY 'PLEASE GIVE
ME THE BALL'".
MAY I WHAT?
PSYCHOLOGISTS HAVE FOUND
THAT ADULTS TEND TO
RESPOND TO THE
TRUTHFULNESS OF YOUNG
CHILDRENS' UTTERANCES
RATHER THAN THE GRAMMAR.
FOR EXAMPLE, IF THE CHILD
SAYS "THAT ARE A DUCK",
IT WOULD BE CORRECTED
TO "NO, THAT'S A HEN"
RATHER THAN
"THAT IS A DUCK".
CHILDREN TODAY ACQUIRE
A LARGER VOCABULARY
THAN THEY USED TO,
PROBABLY BECAUSE
OF THE INFLUENCE
OF THE MASS MEDIA.
HOWEVER, PUTTING A YOUNG
CHILD IN FRONT OF A
TELEVISION HOPING IT WILL
TEACH HIM TO SPEAK WELL
DOESN'T SEEM TO BE A VERY
SUCCESSFUL APPROACH.
IT'S THE HUMAN INTERACTION
IN THE LANGUAGE ENVIRONMENT
THAT ENCOURAGES THE
CHILD TO LEARN LANGUAGE.
NOTE HOW THESE
PARENTS ENCOURAGE
THEIR DAUGHTERS'
LANGUAGE.
WHAT ARE THEY DOING NOW?
THEY'RE JUST MOVING.
JUST MOVING?
(BABBLING)
YOU MAY ALSO HAVE
NOTED THE SPECIAL WAY
IN WHICH PEOPLE
SPEAK TO CHILDREN.
THIS IS CALLED
"PARENTESE".
IT'S BEEN FOUND TO TAKE
A VERY SIMILAR FORM
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
WHAT DO YOU THINK ARE THE
MAIN FEATURES OF PARENTESE?
LISTEN TO THESE ADULTS
TALKING TO CHILDREN
AND THEN SEE IF
YOU CAN DEFINE IT.
OH, DEAR. OH, DEAR.
I DON'T KNOW IF
THAT WAS A YES OR NO
OR IT'S GOOD OR BAD.
IT'S TIME FOR HOME, OKAY?
IT'S TIME FOR HOME.
OH, HE'S A GORGEOUS BOY.
HE'S A LOVELY
LITTLE BOY.
CAN I HAVE A SMILE?
PUT IT THERE,
PUT IT THERE.
YOU WILL HAVE NOTICED THAT
WE SEEM TO MAKE OUR SPEECH
EASIER TO UNDERSTAND BY
USING FAMILIAR WORDS,
SOMETIMES IN A
CHILD'S FORM.
OUR SENTENCES
ARE SHORTER,
AND THERE'S A CHANGE
IN PITCH AND INTONATION.
NOW, HAVING LOOKED AT SOME
OF THE WAYS THAT CHILDRENS'
LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT
CAN BE STIMULATED,
WE'D LIKE YOU AS PSYCHOLOGY
STUDENTS TO CONSIDER
WHAT ADVICE YOU COULD
GIVE TO PARENTS ON THIS.
AND WE'RE ALL FAMILIAR
WITH THE ENDLESS
WHY? WHY? WHY?
AND IT'S IMPORTANT
THAT WE TRY TO ANSWER
CHILDRENS' QUESTIONS.
WHY? WHY?
AND OF COURSE WE CAN
STIMULATE CHILDRENS'
LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT
WITH A SAFE, HAPPY,
AND INTERESTING
ENVIRONMENT WITH PLENTY
OF OPPORTUNITIES FOR
EXPANDING VOCABULARY.
SO ALL THESE THINGS COME
TOGETHER TO ASSIST
THE MOVE THROUGH THE
DEVELOPMENTAL STAGES.
THE NEED TO COMMUNICATE,
THE NEED TO INTERACT WITH
ATTACHMENT FIGURES,
THE NEED TO LISTEN,
THE NEED TO CONTROL THE
ENVIRONMENT, AND THE NEED
TO BE ENCOURAGED TO
INCREASE VOCABULARY,
LEADING TO THE USE OF
LANGUAGE AS A SYMBOLIC TOOL.
BY THE TIME A CHILD
GOES TO SCHOOL,
THE BASIC GRAMMATICAL
RULES HAVE BEEN LEARNED,
ALTHOUGH THERE ARE
STILL MANY EXCEPTIONS
TO THE RULES AND
IRREGULAR WORDS
TO BE LEARNED IN
THE NEXT FEW YEARS.
LANGUAGE CAN NOW BE
USED TO ENJOY JOKES AND
PLAY-ON-WORDS, AND A
LARGE REPERTOIRE OF
PLAYGROUND GAMES AND
RHYMES IS ACQUIRED.
♪ THIS IS HOW THEY
COUNT THEIR MONEY ♪
♪ TURN AROUND.... ♪
LANGUAGE ALSO ALLOWS
CHILDREN TO EXPRESS
THEIR THOUGHTS AND
CREATIVE IDEAS.
WELL, AS I AM A
SECRETIVE AGENT...
NOW, IT'S
VERY HARD WORK.
YOU HAVE TO DESTROY
A LOT OF BADDIES.
SO YOU DO THAT WHEN YOU'RE
NOT AT SCHOOL, DO YOU?
I DO IT IN
THE PLAYGROUND.
AND I ALSO DO ROBBERIES,
BUT I DON'T KILL THEM.
I DON'T FIGHT
ROBBERIES A LOT.
AND SOMETIMES THERE'S
A CRIME ROBBERY.
BY SEVEN YEARS OLD
CHILDRENS' SPOKEN LANGUAGE
IS VERY SIMILAR
TO ADULTS'.
BUT OF COURSE LANGUAGE
LEARNING CONTINUES
FOR A LONG
TIME TO COME.
PSYCHOLOGISTS DEBATE WHETHER
WE NEED LANGUAGE TO THINK,
OR WE NEED TO THINK
FIRST TO HAVE LANGUAGE.
BENJAMIN WHORF
TOOK THE VIEW THAT
THOUGHT IS DEPENDENT
ON LANGUAGE.
A COMMON EXAMPLE IS THAT
INUITS - ESKIMOS -
HAVE MORE THAN 12
WORDS FOR SNOW.
THEY PERCEIVE AND
THINK ABOUT SNOW
IN A VERY DIFFERENT
WAY FROM US.
UNDERSTANDING AND
DESCRIBING SNOW IS
OBVIOUSLY MORE IMPORTANT
TO AN INUIT'S WAY OF LIFE
THAN TO OURS.
THESE CULTURAL DIFFERENCES
OBVIOUSLY DETERMINE
THE TYPE AND EXTENT
OF VOCABULARY
AN INDIVIDUAL
CHILD ACQUIRES.
LEWIS IS ALREADY
ACQUIRING MANY WORDS
THAT WOULD NOT BE IN
AN INUIT'S VOCABULARY.
PAUSE THE VIDEO
FOR A MINUTE
AND CONSIDER WHAT
THESE WORDS MIGHT BE.
THE WHORF-SAPIR
HYPOTHESIS STATES THAT
WE CAN'T PERCEIVE WHAT WE
HAVEN'T GOT WORDS FOR,
BUT LEWIS WILL ALREADY
BE LEARNING TO USE WORDS
CONNECTED WITH A
WARMER CLIMATE,
OUTDOOR ACTIVITY,
GARDENS, AND NATURE.
HE CAN OBVIOUSLY ALSO
PERCEIVE GOING ON HOLIDAY
TO THE SEASIDE.
JEAN PIAGET HELD THE
OPPOSITE VIEW TO WHORF
AND BELIEVED THAT
CONCEPT DEVELOPMENT
PRECEDED SEMANTIC
DEVELOPMENT.
SOMETIMES CHILDRENS'
LANGUAGE MAY GIVE US
A CLUE TO THEIR LEVEL OF
COGNITIVE DEVELOPMENT.
FOR EXAMPLE, THE USE OF
"ALL GONE" MAY BE LINKED
TO AN UNDERSTANDING
OF OBJECT PERMANENCE.
THE DEBATE CONTINUES,
BUT WE MAY CONCLUDE THAT
THERE'S A VERY STRONG
LINK BETWEEN LANGUAGE
AND THOUGHT AS EVIDENCED
BY THESE CHILDREN
SOLVING VERBAL QUESTIONS
USING THOUGHT AND LANGUAGE.
JOHN IS TALLER THAN PAUL;
PAUL IS TALLER THAN JANE.
WHO IS THE TALLEST?
-JOHN.
VERY GOOD.
VYGOTSKY TAKES AN
INTERACTIONIST VIEW.
HE SUGGESTS THAT
LANGUAGE AND THOUGHT
ARE QUITE SEPARATE
ACTIVITIES WHICH
COME TOGETHER AND INTERACT
AT AROUND TWO YEARS OLD.
WE'VE NOTED THAT CHILDREN
ALL ACQUIRE LANGUAGE
IN THE SAME SEQUENCE, BUT
THERE ARE INDIVIDUAL
DIFFERENCES IN HOW
QUICKLY AND EFFICIENTLY
LANGUAGE IS
LEARNED AND USED.
FOR EXAMPLE, BOYS
ACQUIRE LANGUAGE
ON AVERAGE A LITTLE
LATER THAN GIRLS.
ACTIVE CHILDREN SEEM
TO USE FEWER WORDS
THAN LESS ACTIVE ONES.
PREMATURE, ABUSED,
BLIND, AND DEAF CHILDREN
MAY ALL SHOW SOME
LANGUAGE DELAY.
IN TWINS AND OTHER
MULTIPLE BIRTHS,
LANGUAGE IS OFTEN
DELAYED BECAUSE NOT ONLY
ARE THEY OFTEN PREMATURE
BUT THEY ALSO HAVE THE
UNIQUE SITUATION WHERE
THEY'RE COMMUNICATING
MAINLY WITH SOMEONE AT THE
SAME DEVELOPMENTAL LEVEL.
THEY CAN BE HELPED BY
MIXING WITH OTHER CHILDREN
OF DIFFERENT AGES
AND HAVING PLENTY OF
INDIVIDUAL ATTENTION
FROM ADULTS.
THE RANGE OF NORMAL
VARIATION IS CONSIDERABLE,
AND MOST CHILDREN DO
EVENTUALLY COME TO
DEVELOP LANGUAGE
SKILLS FULLY.
CURRENT EDUCATIONAL
PRACTICE IN PRIMARY
AND NURSERY SCHOOLS
HAS BEEN INFLUENCED BY
PSYCHOLOGICAL RESEARCH,
AND LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT
NOW PLAYS AN IMPORTANT
PART IN THE CURRICULUM.
THE PROGRESSION FROM
SPOKEN WORDS TO READING
AND WRITTEN LANGUAGE
IS VITAL, NOT ONLY FOR
THE INDIVIDUAL BUT FOR
THE FUTURE OF MANKIND.
ALL HUMAN KNOWLEDGE
IS AVAILABLE TO THOSE
WHO CAN LEARN TO READ,
AND THE FUTURE OF
HUMAN CIVILIZATION IS
THEREFORE DEPENDENT
ON LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT.
SO THE MESSAGE FOR
STUDENTS IS THIS:
(BELL RINGING)
GOODLY STUDENTS,
TAKE HEED.
LOOK AT THIS VIDEO AND
IMPROVE YOUR COMMUNICATIONS!
THEY ALWAYS SAY
IN THE FILM WORLD,
"NEVER WORK WITH
CHILDREN OR ANIMALS"
AND MAKING A VIDEO LIKE
THIS YOU FIND OUT WHY.
YOU'LL FIND WHEN CARRYING
OUT YOUR OWN STUDIES
THAT EVEN WITH THE
MOST CAREFUL PLANNING,
YOUNG CHILDREN AND
ANIMALS ARE UNPREDICTABLE
IN THEIR BEHAVIOR.
THEY MAY BE UNABLE TO
UNDERSTAND INSTRUCTIONS
OR ANSWER QUESTIONS AND
ARE FAR MORE INTERESTED
IN GETTING ON WITH
THEIR DEVELOPMENT
THAN WITH YOUR STUDY.
IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
TO ASK THE PARENT
OR GUARDIAN'S PERMISSION
TO STUDY A CHILD,
AND TO FOLLOW THE
ETHICAL GUIDELINES
WHICH ARE OUTLINED
IN THE USER'S GUIDE.
MOST RESEARCH WITH
YOUNG CHILDREN
INVOLVES
OBSERVATIONAL STUDIES,
AND THESE HAVE
THEIR OWN PROBLEMS.
EARLIER WE SAID THAT
THERE HAD BEEN CRITICISM
OF THE RESULTS OBTAINED FROM
THE STUDY OF CHIMPANZEES.
PAUSE THE VIDEO AND
DISCUSS WHAT PROBLEMS
AND BIASES MIGHT OCCUR
IN OBSERVATIONAL STUDIES
OF ANIMALS OR CHILDREN.
ONE OF THE MAIN
PROBLEMS IS REACTIVITY.
THAT IS, A CHANGE
IN NORMAL BEHAVIOR
DUE TO THE PRESENCE
OF THE OBSERVER.
IT REQUIRES A BALANCE
BETWEEN ALLOWING CHILDREN
TO GET USED TO YOU AND YET
NOT BEING SO INTERESTING
THAT THEY DON'T PRODUCE
THEIR NORMAL BEHAVIOR.
ANIMALS ALSO CHANGE
THEIR BEHAVIOR
WHEN UNFAMILIAR
THINGS HAPPEN.
WITH ANIMAL STUDIES
THERE'S A TENDENCY TO
ANTHROPOMORPHIZE, THAT
IS TO ATTRIBUTE TO THEM
HUMAN FEELINGS
AND EMOTIONS.
ONE OF THE BIASES MAY BE
BECOMING TOO EMOTIONALLY
INVOLVED WITH THE SUBJECT
TO GIVE AN OBJECTIVE
ASSESSMENT OF
THEIR BEHAVIOR.
THERE'S MORE DISCUSSION
OF THIS AND PLENTY OF
IDEAS FOR INTERESTING
PRACTICAL WORK
AND CLASS EXERCISES
IN THE GUIDE.
FINALLY, WHAT ABOUT
THE CURRENT AND FUTURE
RESEARCH IN LANGUAGE
DEVELOPMENT?
TODAY MOST WORK IS ON
REAL WORLD PROBLEMS
OF DELAYED DEVELOPMENT.
BILINGUALISM AND
CROSS-CULTURAL STUDIES
ARE INCREASINGLY
IMPORTANT RESEARCH AREAS.
RESEARCHERS ARE ALSO
LOOKING AT A WIDE RANGE
OF PROBLEMS FROM BLIND
AND DEAF BABIES,
BRAIN INJURIES,
NEONATAL SURVIVORS
AND HIV SUFFERERS,
AND PROGRAMS ARE BEING
DEVELOPED TO HELP THEM.
WORK ON NEURAL NETWORKS
IS HELPING THE
CONTINUING STUDY OF HOW
CHILDREN ACQUIRE SYNTAX